# Project proposal

The basis of this project pertains to past research, and will be related to the code that was refactored for Assignment 3. However, the scope will be significantly increased and generalized compared to that assignment. 

### Background
Throughout interplanetary space are meteoroids: small particles of rock, dust, and ice. As the Earth travels in its orbit and encounters these meteoroids, they interact with the atmosphere to produce heat and light in the form of meteors. Some meteoroids are distributed essentially randomly, termed the sporadic population, while others are concentrated in streams associated with a particular source, such as those produced by material expelled from comets. When the Earth passes through one of these streams, the result is a meteor shower. The point on the sky from which a meteor appears to originate is the radiant, and meteors of a given shower will all have the same radiant.

Meteoroids within a given population \(the sporadics, or a particular shower\) are not all uniform, and different populations will have a different distribution of masses. This mass distribution is generally modelled as a power law *N*\(*M*\) ∝ *M*^\(1-*s*\), where *N* is the number of meteoroids larger than mass *M*, and *s* is termed the mass index. For *s*=2, this represents an even distribution of mass across each mass range, while *s*&lt;2 represents a population with a higher proportion of mass in more massive meteoroids. The mass index is important because from it we can make inferences about the origins, ages, and evolution of meteor showers, and compare the observed population against simulated shower models. These models are in turn used to make forecasts necessary for planning spacecraft operations, such as spacewalks.

For the radar system used by Western's meteor group to observe meteors, the amplitude of the radar return is directly proportional to mass for most of its detection range, and amplitude can be directly substituted into the power law. However, above a certain scale \(which is not well-defined and depends on other factors such as distance from the radar to the meteor\), the meteor trail is too heavily ionized for this proportionality to hold, and below a certain scale the radar is not sensitive enough to detect small meteors. Since the appropriate limits for the power-law fit are not immediately clear, I made use of an external statistical tool called MultiNest to determine the boundaries and provide the fits, given amplitude data for a population. The fits were subsequently plotted in Python.

### Goal
As originally implemented, my code was focused on two specific showers, the Zeta Perseids and the Beta Taurids, which are a related pair of showers produced by the same overall stream. As such the scripts were designed with the parameters of those showers hardcoded, from first pulling the data from the servers to the labels of the plots. In addition, certain filters \(such as meteor velocity measurements\) were likewise applied or omitted manually using separate scripts. It is useful to compare the mass index of a shower to the sporadic population in the same region of the sky at times when the shower is not active, and in the case of the two showers I was examining, it was also desirable to compare the two showers against each other; all of this was done manually, rigidly, and redundantly. 

However, these two showers are by no means the only ones we might want mass index measurements for; more than 250 showers or shower candidates have been identified in our radar data. Therefore, the goal of this assignment will be to refine the scripts I had previously used into a consistent and generalized pipeline that will allow the user to enter the necessary shower parameters, and smoothly proceed all the way from data retrieval and filtering, to feeding the data into the fitting algorithm, to plotting. The user will be able to select whether to apply certain optional filters, as well as whether to compare against the sporadic background, and if so to choose the timing. The user will also be able to feed in multiple showers to be compared against one another if desired. With the scripts as they exist now, each of these options is technically possible, but would require a great deal of manually replacing values and parameters, and hoping that none were missed. This project will replace this tedious, inconvenient, and error-prone method to one that can be useful and efficient for current or future members of the Western Meteor Group.